In this section,
we're going to review the functionality of the Globomantics
product controller and look at the existing source code so that
we'll better understand how to test it.
The product controller accepts web requests,
invokes the product service to execute the service's business functionality,
and then packages the responses into web responses,
namely, JSON with specific HTTP headers.
The product controller exposes four operations: First,
it handles a GET request to retrieve all products,
namely, get/products, and then it handles a GET request for a specific product,
the idea of which is passed as a path parameter.
It implements a POST request handler that allows the user to
create a new product; the URI is post/product.
Finally,
it includes a PUT request handler that allows the
user to update an existing product.
The URI is PUT/product/id, and includes an If-Match HTTP header,
which is used to validate the version of the product being updated.
REST implements versioning using entity tags, or ETags.
An ETag is returned in the HTTP header when a user retrieves a product,
and then when the user wants to update the product,
he sends that ETag value in the If-Match HTTP header.
If the two values match, then the PUT operation can be completed.
If the two values do not match,
it means that someone else updated the product in between the time
the GET was executed and the subsequent PUT call.
At this point, the product controller returns a 409 conflict response code.
You may be wondering where the delete operation is in the service.
We're going to save the implementation of the delete operation
to the end of this module so that we can add it using a proper
test-driven development methodology.
We'll build the test to validate the behavior that we expect,
and then we'll write the code, knowing that if our tests pass,
that the implementation is good.
Let's take a look at the source code for the product
controller and see how it works.
The product controller is a Spring RestController and is
annotated with the RestController annotation.
It defines a constructor that accepts a ProductService,
which implements its business logic and it saves that
ProductService to a member variable.
The first method we want to look at is the getProduct method.
This method is annotated with the GetMapping annotation.
It handles GET requests for the /product/id path.
Spring MVC converts the id path parameter to an Integer and
passes it to the getProduct method as an argument.
The getProduct method invokes the productService.findById method.
If a product with the specified ID is found,
it maps that product to a ResponseEntity.
It sets the HTTP response code to 200 OK,
it sets the eTag header to the version number of the return product,
it sets the location header to /product/ the ID of the product,
and it returns the full product back to the caller in the response body.
If there's a problem building the location header,
then it returns a ResponseEntity with an INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR.
Finally, if a product with the specified ID is not found,
then it returns a ResponseEntity with a 404 notFound response code.
Next, the getProduct method is also annotated with the GetMapping annotation,
but it handles the /products path.
This method takes a little bit of a shortcut in that it
returns the Iterable product that it receives from the
productService's findAll method.
Spring MVC will automatically return a 200 OK response code with the body
containing all of the products referenced by the Iterable.
The createProduct method is annotated with a PostMapping
annotation and handles HTTP posts to /product.
It expects, as its request body, a product object.
When the client posts a JSON representation of a product to /product,
Spring MVC will convert that JSON into a product object for us.
The createProduct method delegates to the productService's save
method to persist the product to the database.
The save method returns the product that was created,
including the generated ID and assigned version number.
It then returns a ResponseEntity with a 201 created response code,
the location header set to /product/ the ID of the saved product,
an eTag header set to the version of the product,
which should be 1, and with the complete product as the body.
If an error occurs,
then it returns a ResponseEntity with an internal server error.
Finally, the updateProduct method is annotated with the PutMapping annotation,
and handles HTTP puts to /product/id.
It expects the body of the put to include a product,
the path to include the ID of the product to update,
and an If-Match HTTP header that contains the version number
of the product the client is updating.
The updateProduct method begins by retrieving the product with
the specified ID from the productService.
If it's not found,
then it returns a ResponseEntity with a 404 notFound HTTP response code.
If the product is found,
then it compares the product's version with the supplied ifMatch HTTP header.
If the product returned by the productService has a
different version number than the ifMatch value,
then it returns a ResponseEntity with a 409 conflict HTTP response code.
If the version number matches the ifMatch header value,
then the updateProduct method updates the product with a new
value and saves the new values to the database by invoking the
productService's update method.
The update method returns true on success and false on failure.
If the update was successful,
then the updateProduct method returns a 200 ok HTTP response
code with the appropriate location and eTag headers and the
updated product in the body.
Properly implementing put operations is a little bit of work,
but the steps are pretty straightforward. Now let's turn our attention back to testing the controller.